# CIBPortfolioManagement
October 2015Capital Investments at BerkeleyActive Portfolio Management:Strategy and Philosophy
About Us	In the midst of a financial evolution between man and machine-based analysis, our student-run investment club, at the University of California Berkeley, positions itself in the avant-garde of a fast-growing environment supporting essential human insights with large quantities of data. Capital Investments at Berkeley seeks to achieve a realistic approach to investing, knowing our limitations, and prioritizing on our most valuable resource: our members. Our club thereby emphasizes on an educational program and research-based creation of an investment strategy. We seek out advices from financial professionals and achieve, through hands-on research and experimentation, our most valuable contribution to the financial world, the formation of financial professionals as well as the promotion of an investing approach combining fundamental and quantitative analysis.
CIB is thereby divided in two branches. The first one consists of a rigorous fundamental analysis delivering weekly equity research reports. These reports are then passed on to the second branch, merging quantitative analysis with our active portfolio management strategy and reallocation models.Finally, we decide as an aggregate
Introduction	Active portfolio management is commonly seen as a threshold between professional and amateur investing. Thus, we decided to endeavor in the creation of an effective active portfolio management strategy, encompassing our knowledge and reflecting our research efforts. Our assumptions are in continuity with our investment philosophy and assumptions made by the models used to capture the purity and performance of our investment strategy. In addition to the fundamental analysis provided by a parallel branch of our investment club, Capital Investments at Berkeley, we endeavor in a quantitative analysis, in order to achieve maximum returns with minimal risk, thus maximizing our Sharpe ratio. We attempt to project our performance on expected-returns-to-risks graph relatively to our calculated efficient frontier following the CAPM model. In order to reach our optimal portfolio performance by tatonnement, we divided our portfolio in buckets according to risk factors, picked and constructed relying on indicators calculated from financial data sourced from Quandl.com.  Our diversification strategy relies on a methodical and continuous weighing of performance of individual stocks relatively to the market?s performance.